   This article is more than 3 months old
   George Monbiot

   It’s not just anti-vaxxers. The themes of resisting power and regaining
   control of our lives have been cynically repurposed
   Anti-vax protesters in London, in September 2020.
   [ ]
   ‘How do we remain true to our countercultural roots?’ Anti-vax
   protesters in London, in September 2020. Photograph: Guy
   Bell/REX/Shutterstock
   ‘How do we remain true to our countercultural roots?’ Anti-vax
   protesters in London, in September 2020. Photograph: Guy
   Bell/REX/Shutterstock
   Wed 22 Sep 2021 09.00 BST
--
   circles, which have for so long sought to cultivate a good society,
   there are people actively threatening the lives of others.

   It’s not just anti-vax beliefs that have been spreading through these
   movements. On an almost daily basis I see conspiracy theories
   travelling smoothly from right to left. I hear right-on people mouthing
   the claims of white supremacists, apparently in total ignorance of
--

   The anti-vaccine movement is a highly effective channel for the
   penetration of far-right ideas into leftwing countercultures. For
   several years, anti-vax has straddled the green left and the far right.
   Trump flirted with it, at one point inviting the anti-vaxxer Robert F
   Kennedy Jr to chair a “commission on vaccination safety and scientific
   integrity”.

   Anti-vax beliefs overlap strongly with a susceptibility to conspiracy
   theories. This tendency has been reinforced by Facebook algorithms
   directing vaccine-hesitant people towards far-right conspiracy groups.
   Ancient links between “wellness” movements and antisemitic paranoia
--
   fear that a shadowy cabal is trying to deprive us of autonomy.

   There’s a temptation to overthink this, and we should never discount
   the role of sheer bloody idiocy. Some anti-vaxxers are now calling
   themselves “purebloods”, a term that should send a chill through anyone
   even vaguely acquainted with 20th-century history. In their defence,
   however, if they can’t even get Harry Potter right (purebloods is what
