   #alternate alternate Mail Online Search publisher Mail Online News RSS
   feed Latest News Stories RSS feed


   MailOnline - news, sport, celebrity, science and health stories
   [USEMAP:gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==
   ]
     * Home
     * News
     * U.S.
     * Sport
     * TV&Showbiz
     * Australia
     * Femail
     * Health
     * Science
     * Money
     * Video
     * Travel
     * Best Buys
     * Discounts
          + Argos
          + AO.com
          + River Island
          + Groupon
          + Debenhams
          + Wayfair
          + Very
          + eBay
          + Boohoo
          + Nike
          + Currys
          + Virgin Media
          + ASOS
          + TUI
          + My Profile
          + Logout
          + Login

     * Latest Headlines
     * The Queen
     * Royals
     * Prince Harry
     * Meghan Markle
     * World News
     * Covid-19
     * Black Friday
     * Most read

     * My Profile
     * Logout

     * Login

   Privacy Policy Feedback
   [DailyMail.png]
   Sunday, Jan 2nd 2022 1PM 13°C 4PM 13°C 5-Day Forecast
   Advertisement

'Zero Covid absolutists' accuse JCVI of being 'anti-vax' as newly published
minutes show panel considered herd immunity in children over jabs because
virus poses 'very low risk' to them

     * Members of Independent Sage, a pro-lockdown group, accused the JCVI
       of using children as 'human shields'
     * Minutes show that in May, JCVI accepted there was 'an argument' for
       letting kids get Covid naturally instead
     * The publication of the minutes has reignited row about whether
       children should be vaccinated against Covid

   By Connor Boyd Deputy Health Editor For Mailonline

   Published: 15:32 GMT, 1 November 2021 | Updated: 08:03 GMT, 2 November
   2021

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     * e-mail
     *

   91 shares

   245

   View
   comments
   Advertisement

   Newly-published minutes from JCVI meetings show that the group first
   looked at whether letting 12 to 15-year-olds catch Covid naturally was
   better than vaccinating them on May 13 (shown above). It looked at a
   range of reasons against vaccinating people in the age group, which
   included the argument that natural infection might be better and less
   risky
   Newly-published minutes from JCVI meetings show that the group first
   looked at whether letting 12 to 15-year-olds catch Covid naturally was
   better than vaccinating them on May 13 (shown above). It looked at a
   range of reasons against vaccinating people in the age group, which
   included the argument that natural infection might be better and less
   risky

   Newly-published minutes from JCVI meetings show that the group first
   looked at whether letting 12 to 15-year-olds catch Covid naturally was
   better than vaccinating them on May 13 (shown above). It looked at a
   range of reasons against vaccinating people in the age group, which
   included the argument that natural infection might be better and less
   risky

   'Zero Covid' scientists have slammed the Government's coronavirus
   vaccine advisory panel as being 'anti-vax' for considering the benefits
   of herd immunity over vaccination in children.

   Members of Independent Sage, a vocal group of experts who have clung on
   to the idea of eliminating Covid, accused the Joint Committee on
   Vaccination and Immunisation of using youngsters as 'human shields' to
   protect adults.

   Newly-published minutes from JCVI meetings show that the group first
   looked at whether letting 12 to 15-year-olds get Covid naturally was
   better than vaccinating them in spring, months before the rollout was
   expanded to teens.

   Echoing the view of many independent experts, the JCVI accepted
   allowing the virus to circulate naturally could give youngsters strong
   immunity and also protect adults — without the risk of side effects
   from vaccines.

   The panel emphasised Covid posed such a tiny threat to children and
   raised concerns about a heart inflammation condition associated with
   the jabs in young people.

   'Children rarely develop severe disease or die of Covid; even children
   with underlying comorbidities have a very low risk,' the JCVI said in
   its 32nd meeting on May 13.

   'There are limited data on Covid vaccine use in children; there is a
   need to consider the mild transient illness of Covid versus potential
   rare adverse events associated with vaccination.

   'There is an argument for allowing the virus to circulate amongst
   children which could provide broader immunity to the children and boost
   immunity in adults.'

   The group also considered that children might be better off catching
   Covid at a young age, when they are at low risk, so that they are less
   vulnerable in adulthood, as is the case with chicken pox and other
   viral infections.

   Dr Kit Yates, a mathematical biologist at the University of Bath and
   Independent Sage member, quoted excerpts from a number of JCVI minutes
   in a lengthy Twitter thread, writing: 'Anti-vax or JCVI?'

   His colleague Professor Alice Roberts, a public health expert at the
   University of Birmingham, said the views expressed at the meetings were
   'just appalling'. Other Independent Sage members described them as
   'upsetting'.

   But members also weighed up the pros to vaccinating healthy 12 to
   15-year-olds (circled) which included things like keeping schools open,
   reducing infection numbers and giving parents reassurance
   Only around 20 per cent of 12 to 15-year-olds in England have been
   vaccinated against Covid so far (purple), which is believed to be due
   to hesitation among parents
   Only around 20 per cent of 12 to 15-year-olds in England have been
   vaccinated against Covid so far (purple), which is believed to be due
   to hesitation among parents

   Only around 20 per cent of 12 to 15-year-olds in England have been
   vaccinated against Covid so far (purple), which is believed to be due
   to hesitation among parents

   But Professor Robert Dingwall, a former JCVI member who participated in
   the discussions, told MailOnline today that it was 'absurd' to describe
   the panel as anti-vax.

   He told MailOnline: 'The JCVI is an eminent group of vaccine
   scientists, some of the best vaccine scientists in the country, so of
   course they are pro-vaccination.

   'But they are sensitive to risks, and they recognise all vaccines come
   with small risks. So the default position is we don't want to give to
   anyone any vaccine until we've weighed up all the risks and benefits.

   'The JCVI has been keeping the nation safe for 60 years by applying
   that same reasoning with all vaccines.'

RELATED ARTICLES

     * Previous
     * 1
     * Next

     * [43305859-0-A_man_wearing_a_face_mask_walks_past_a_testing_centre_a
       mid_the_o-m-6_1635759188897.jpg] All NHS-run Covid testing sites
       will shut EARLY from today...
       [49751937-0-image-m-20_1635432414339.jpg] Double-vaccinated
       patients still have a 25% chance of...
       [49908071-0-image-a-9_1635778990233.jpg] Global Covid death toll
       tops five million with US, UK,...
       [49893633-0-image-a-16_1635757360684.jpg] Shanghai Disneyland is
       forced to shut down after one visitor...
       [49886611-0-image-m-98_1635735951451.jpg] Anti-vax policeman who
       dramatically quit over Covid vaccine...
       [49810477-0-image-a-62_1635540267907.jpg] Is this finally proof
       China created Covid? Group of online...

Share this article

   Share
   91 shares

   The JCVI is made up of 20 top virologists, epidemiologists, public
   health experts and behavioural scientists, including Oxford
   University's Sir Andrew Pollard, who helped develop the AstraZeneca
   jab.

Experts warn UK against 'blindly' following US in jabbing healthy
five-year-olds

   Arguments to vaccinate children as young as five against Covid are
   'scientifically weak', British experts told MailOnline after the US
   moved closer to jabbing infants.

   An advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) unanimously
   agreed the benefits of giving under-12s Pfizer's jab outweighed risks
   last week.

   American health chiefs are expected to green light the plans within
   days, which will put pressure on the UK to follow suit.

   But British scientists have warned against 'blindly' recommending the
   jabs to primary school-aged children without weighing up the risks
   'extremely carefully'.

   Professor David Livermore, a medical microbiologist at the University
   of East Anglia told MailOnline: 'Vaccinating children to protect adults
   via herd immunity is ethically dubious and is scientifically weak.'

   There are also still fears about myocarditis, a form of heart
   inflammation detected in children, mostly boys, in around one in 10,000
   cases after vaccination.

   Critics say children are better off catching Covid and getting
   protection naturally because the risk of being admitted to ICU is about
   one in 500,000.

   There are signs that natural immunity in British youngsters is already
   slowing the epidemic. But some studies have suggested myocarditis is
   even more common after Covid infection itself, which complicates the
   matter further.

   Professor Russell Viner, a pediatrician and member of the UK
   Government's scientific advisory group SAGE, said it was crucial the UK
   does not 'rush to a decision' in the wake of the announcement in the
   US.
   Advertisement

   The group has not shied away from making difficult decisions that put
   the UK at odds with other countries, including going with a different
   dosing strategy.

   When the vaccines were first rolled out in winter, the group stretched
   the recommended three-week regimen to 12 weeks to get wider coverage
   and because there were signs the jabs might work better that way.

   At the time, the JCVI was heavily criticised, with the British Medical
   Association warning at the time that the JCVI's decisions were 'proving
   evermore difficult to justify'.

   'The absence of any international support for the UK’s approach is a
   cause of deep concern and risks undermining public and the profession’s
   trust in the vaccination programme,' the union said.

   Professor Dingwall, a sociologist at Nottingham Trent University,
   explained that the JCVI weighed up a range of different viewpoints in
   the spring and summer which never factored into its final decision.

   He told MailOnline: 'The meetings in spring and summer were
   deliberately intended to be wide-ranging discussions without coming to
   conclusions.

   'The committee considered a great range of evidence and possible
   interpretations of that evidence, and that's how you get to a consensus
   in these types of committees.

   'You look at everything out there and come to a conclusion, some on
   Independent Sage are making out that just because things appear in
   early discussions mean they were factored into the consensus.'

   He added: 'If you are a zero-infection absolutist, the vaccine should
   have been approved quickly. If this had been done, some children would
   have suffered serious consequences from heart inflammation and we would
   be discussing those. In the end there was not a clear signal either
   way.'

   Minutes from the same meeting on May 13 show that the JCVI considered
   that rolling out jabs to under-16s could result in 'fewer infections,
   fewer outbreaks, fewer school absences'.

   In a subsequent meeting on May 20, the group said that vaccinating
   children could also 'have some impact on mortality in older adults'.

   The JCVI ultimately decided against recommending Covid vaccines for
   healthy 12 to 15-year-olds in September despite huge political and
   public pressure because the risk of side effects did not clearly
   outweigh the threat of Covid.

   It urged ministers to seek advice from other public health experts
   about the wider benefits of vaccinating children to society.

   The group had already approved plans for children in that age group
   with serious underlying conditions to be jabbed and for youngsters who
   lived with extremely vulnerable family members. It said that, in these
   groups, the benefit did outweigh the risk.
   Professor Robert Dingwall, a former JCVI member who participated in the
   discussions, told MailOnline today that it was 'absurd' to label the
   JCVI as anti-vax
   Professor Robert Dingwall, a former JCVI member who participated in the
   discussions, told MailOnline today that it was 'absurd' to label the
   JCVI as anti-vax
   JCVI member Professor Adam Finn admitted that the long-term effects of
   vaccines on children are not yet known
   JCVI member Professor Adam Finn admitted that the long-term effects of
   vaccines on children are not yet known

   Professor Robert Dingwall, a former JCVI member who participated in the
   discussions, told MailOnline today that it was 'absurd' to label the
   JCVI as anti-vax. JCVI member Professor Adam Finn has admitted he has
   sympathy with parents who are cautious to get their children vaccinated

All NHS-run Covid testing sites will shut EARLY from today

   NHS-run Covid testing sites are to close from 6pm as of today after
   officials claimed not enough people were coming forward for swabs in
   the evening.

   The £37billion Test and Trace scheme has instructed all local and
   regional facilities in England to scale back their opening hours and
   shut early.

   Bosses at the new health agency responsible for the programme claimed
   the decision was taken because 'demand for tests reduces significantly'
   at night.

   But MPs said working Britons found evening tests convenient, while a
   SAGE expert questioned the timing of the move, with cases high heading
   into winter.

   Most NHS walk-in and drive-through sites were open from 8am to 8pm
   every day, for people with symptoms or close contacts of a confirmed
   case.

   There are around 500 NHS testing sites across the whole of the UK.

   The scale-down comes after a Commons inquiry found Test and Trace had
   been an 'eyewatering' waste of public cash that failed in all of its
   main objectives.
   Advertisement

   But the JCVI raised concerns about myocarditis, a form of heart
   inflammation detected in healthy children, mostly boys, in around one
   in 10,000 cases after vaccination.

   For comparison, the group said the risk of a healthy under-16 being
   admitted to ICU with Covid was about one in 500,000.

   While most cases of myocarditis are mild and treatable, JCVI member
   Professor Adam Finn admitted that the long-term effects of the
   condition are not yet known.

   He urged parents who were cautious about getting their child vaccinated
   to wait six months for more safety data to come through.
   Professor Dingwall told MailOnline: 'There is a general concern that
   with side effects like myocarditis, what we're seeing is inflammation
   to the heart tissue, so there could be risk to other tissue. It can
   take some time for the extent of this damage to reveal itself.'

   But some studies have suggested myocarditis is more prevalent after
   Covid infection itself, which complicates the matter further.

   Data used to justify the JCVI's decision showed that there were 259
   Covid admissions to ICU among under-18s in England up to the end of
   February 2021, and 22 had no underlying health conditions.

   Six of the 25 children who died from the virus in the same time also
   did not appear to have comorbidities.

   Weeks after the JCVI's decision, Professor Chris Whitty and his fellow
   chief medical officers green-lit the rollout in children after finding
   that it could keep schools open and prevent further disruptions.

   Only around 20 per cent of 12 to 15-year-olds in England have been
   vaccinated against Covid so far, which is believed to be due to
   hesitation among parents.

   One mother told MailOnline she did not feel comfortable getting her
   teenage son jabbed against the coronavirus because the recommendation
   was not given by the JCVI, which is independent of Government.

   There are signs that natural immunity in British youngsters is already
   slowing the epidemic following a surge that started at the beginning of
   the new term.

   Professor Dingwall, speaking in a personal capacity after stepping down
   from the JCVI in August, said that, fundamentally, the expert panel was
   opposed to over-medicating.

   He told MailOnline: 'There is a cultural divide at the basis of this
   and it's something which has roots in America. Some think that if
   there's any way to avoid an infection you should avoid it, by means of
   vaccination or drugs.

   'Ten years ago, the JCVI looked at vaccinating children against chicken
   pox and came to the conclusion it was not worth it.

   'And we're trying very hard in the area of antibiotics not to promote
   the notion of 'just because you've got an infection you should have a
   pill for it.''

   Advertisement

Share or comment on this article:

'Zero Covid absolutists' accuse JCVI of being 'anti-vax' for considering herd
immunity in children

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     * e-mail
     *
     * 91
       shares

   NEW ARTICLESHomeTop
   Share

     * Back to top

     * Home
     * News
     * U.S.
     * Sport
     * TV&Showbiz
     * Australia
     * Femail
     * Health
     * Science
     * Money
     * Food
     * Travel
     * Best Buys
     * Discounts

   Sitemap Archive Video Archive Topics Index Mobile Apps Screensaver RSS
   Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page
   Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This is Money
   Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location

   Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd

   Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
   dmg media Contact us How to complain Leadership Team Advertise with us
   Contributors Terms Do not sell my info Privacy policy & cookies Cookie
   regulation logo

   Advertisement

   Advertisement
